so I'm gonna start my talk in a weird
place this is warmed world party and in
2001 I played a lot of this video game
that was 18 years ago and 18 years ago
I worked in a lab this is a website that
I actually made I had to dig it up on
the wayback machine but this is the
website for the West Virginia virtual
environments laboratory I was I got a
really cool job as an undergrad one of
my professors suggested me to this
computer science professor who started
this lab and so I was on this virtual
reality laboratory along with a bunch of
computer scientists and I was just sort
of like what am I doing here and and
working with those folks and here's a
little description virtual reality is a
relatively new cool field in computer
science and it was cool and we did take
advantage over the fact that we had pcs
with really great graphics cards and we
played a lot of video games when we
weren't doing our actual work and so
that was 18 years ago
and and I would say in the last five
years I've been a huge skeptic of this
sort of hype bubble that's been around
immersive technology and virtual reality
and in those sets of technologies and I
think for me personally it was I've been
waiting for this for almost twenty years
to to be a reality and be available to
the public and and and it just didn't
seem like it was there yet and it's just
been sort of in the last year that I've
really felt that we're to a place where
the public is going to get to experience
these things in in interesting ways
fast forward eighteen years later I now
work at the knight Foundation as our
director of Arts and Technology Knight
Foundation is a weird foundation private
philanthropies are strange beasts the
the knight foundation itself was started
by the brothers who owned
Ritter publishing which was largest
newspaper chain in the u.s. at one point
since been sold and we have three focus
areas journalism communities and arts
and for communities and arts programs
we're largely focused on eight cities
around the country and those four cities
where there were night newspapers and we
do a lot of work in our arts program
working with large institutions in those
cities and also through things like the
night arts challenge which just
yesterday we wrapped up the submission
period for our Miami contest where we're
looking for more grassroots authentic
work that's happening in those
communities I was brought in tonight
foundation very early on to work with
our journalism and media program and
around civic technology to to help those
to help those grantees think about how
they used human Center design how they
build early stage technology and how
they sort of think about users and the
the folks that they're serving with this
technology and that's grown into a
larger portfolio of work that's now
happening within the arts space and when
I moved over to the arts program it
meant that I got to do really cool stuff
and I got to work with really cool
organizations like grey area like new
Inc in New York City which is a
fantastic incubator as part of the new
museum with the school for poetic
computation who's working on a workshop
that will be happening in Detroit soon
processing foundation like Jax mentioned
and in the clinic for open source arts
which is at the University of Denver
these are just some of the sort of
grants that we've done in this space and
and like has been mentioned several
times we also funded the experiential
space research lab here at grey area
which was an interesting one Josette
mentioned the the telephone conversation
that we had and that tell about
telephone conversation happened after I
just got out of a sort of roundtable
discussion with museum professionals and
one of the things that
I heard was a real disdain for pop up
experiences Museum of ice-cream came up
and and it was the classic like that's
not a real that's not a real museum
that's not that's not a serious thing
and and then the really
and I would say brilliant criticism of
Amanda Hess later came out in the New
York Times of these sorts of experiences
and and in the back of my mind I thought
well I think there's probably more
happening here right we need to
understand what is bringing people to
these spaces and what we can learn about
those models and so when Josette and
Barry sort of talked about yet we're
interested in these experiences because
as digital artists we know that the sort
of object based art gallery model
doesn't work for for our folks and we're
seeing this trend happening where you
have these spaces and people are buying
ticketed experiences that are maybe
temporary or maybe they're built to last
longer but we think it's a model that's
maybe more aligned with the Performing
Arts
but maybe we'll work in visual arts and
digital art and and that's felt really
exciting to me and so they've been on
this crusade for the last year trying to
understand what that model is and what
the potential looks like for for digital
artists as fun as that is the bulk of my
work is working with institutions like
this this is the Perez Art Museum in
Miami has anybody been to Pam it is he's
an amazing museum if you get to Miami
make sure that you go to this museum one
because it's just beautiful the
architecture is fantastic and you can
just sit on the patio and look at the
bay and never look at the art and still
enjoy yourself but they're also
exhibiting fantastic Contemporary Art
I'm working with museums in the
technology space to think about how do
they engage audiences in new ways our
interest is in
thought process with our technology
program is that these large institutions
need to become savvy in technology and
they need to be able to meet people
where they're at so much of our lives
are lived online and in digital spaces
these days that in order to stay
relevant these institutions need to
build skills in the digital area and not
just in the digital space but also a
broader understanding of the people that
they serve and their audiences how to
communicate with them in new ways
and how to build experiences that that
are relevant to their lives about a year
ago we ran another call for ideas
which was a set of four a set of
prototype projects and one of the things
that happened when we ran that I did a
little bit of analysis on what was
showing up in our applications and and
one of the largest trends about a
quarter of the applications we received
900 applications for this call for ideas
and about a quarter of them dealt with
virtual reality augmented reality or
some type of immersive technology and so
when we thought about what do we need to
do next how can we keep these
organizations working with technology
and interesting ways one of the things
that we thought about is what can we go
to where the interest already is and
where they they're there's already
energy within the field and and are we
ready in the space of immersive
technology to be thinking about how its
deployed in large arts institutions so I
I asked my board of directors if we
could do that and my little drumroll
today we're opening up a call for ideas
and so it's a $750,000 total grant pool
for ideas around how arts organizations
might use immersive tech
so we're thinking about arts
institutions we're thinking about the
act of presentation and engagement
through these technologies this is a
little bit different right so we're not
asking for content as much we're not
thinking about what's the new vr film
that you're creating instead we're
thinking about how do we present these
experiences in cultural spaces and so
one answer to that might be how a space
like this is used and and new
opportunities to use immersive
technology in these spaces others might
be how museums or symphonies or others
can potentially take advantage of these
technologies we're working with
Microsoft as a partner on this Microsoft
is offering access to their X our team
as part of the experience will be taking
folks to Redmond to sort of learn what
they're thinking about and have access
to technology and those sorts of things
despite the fact that Microsoft is
involved we're also technology agnostic
we're not suggesting that anyone needs
to specifically utilize Microsoft
technology but one of the advantages of
being a funder like us is that we can
provide access to partners like
Microsoft this is happening starting
today we've got a deadline coming up of
August 12 and we're thinking about a few
different things as part of this one of
course engaging new audiences and I
would stress the new part there right I
think that one of the big opportunities
here is that arts institutions can think
about how these technologies and
experiences can bring folks into their
spaces that might not otherwise come
into their spaces or connect with their
mission in some way that they might not
otherwise we're also thinking about what
is the service model that that wraps
around these experiences right so maybe
there were thinking about not just what
hap
in the headset but what does an arts
organization have to figure out
everything that comes before we put the
headset on and everything that comes
after we take the headset off
what is that entire service and
experience what does it look like and
how do we start to operationalize those
sorts of things within arts institutions
where these might be new things we're
thinking about opportunities to get
beyond walls arts institutions tend to
be to think really within their their
walls and their spaces and I think this
is an opportunity to get beyond them and
we're thinking about things like
distribution how do these experiences
travel how do they get distributed to
multiple institutions whether that be a
sort of cinema like model or or
something else and so to just sort of
focus on that it's a little bit more
about the approach than content and so
I'll give one example of a knight
Foundation grantee and and how I think
their project sort of talks to some of
the things that that we're touching on
here
this is the Barnes Foundation in
Philadelphia it's in downtown
Philadelphia it has a long and somewhat
complicated history and and I if you
don't know that history is worth worth
some research but they did a project
that was a VR project about a year ago
and I really love it because it's the
dumbest stupidest use of this technology
that you can could think of they're
they're an organization that has a
fantastic sense for audience research
and really sort of documents their
process that goes into each project so I
would encourage you there are several
medium articles by Shelly Bernstein on
this specific project that I'm
mentioning but it starts from a place
that a lot of museums struggle and what
they heard through a lot of the research
was museums I just can't picture myself
in a museum
I don't I don't picture myself there and
so that's what sort of launched them
into a virtual reality project and the
project itself is really simple they did
simple 360 photography of their spaces
they put that into a a lightweight VR
expand experience and then if you know
anything about where the barns is at
they're the right on the sort of
cultural strip in Philadelphia and
they're across the street from the
library and what they did is just
literally walk across the street to the
library and the cool thing about this
technology at the moment is it still new
and novel and everyone wants to try it
out and so if you set up in the library
with you know ten headsets on a table
and say hey do you want to check out
this VR experience chances are folks
will say yes and and this is the case
here and so what's happening is folks
are sort of looking around the gallery
and at the same time they have educators
who are talking to them about what
they're seeing what what what the space
is what the artwork is and the feedback
that they're hearing are things like you
know I didn't even know what that
building across the street was I'd been
wondering what was over there and so
they go through this experience and and
so folks get this sense of oh well I can
picture myself in that space now right I
understand what that space is and what
it sort of feels like to be there the
next piece I think is really critical
because after that they say to folks hey
do you want to hop on public transit
well hop on the bus let's go to the
museum and so they take folks to the
museum for free that went through this
experience and they give them an
experience of the space in real life and
then they they give them some passes to
come back and they say bring your family
back we'd love to have you here
and they're finding like a 30 percent
return rate which for a museum is really
really fantastic and and so when I think
about that what I like about it for me
it really sort of matches up with this
sort of 5e model of of experience right
so this notion of we have an overarching
concept right and here the concept is we
want to try to help people picture
themselves in our space you do something
that creates some excitement and in this
case it's showing up the library with a
bunch of VR headsets we we invite entry
into the space and so there's an
experience of sort of crossing over from
your everyday context into a new context
and then you have activities that engage
people why they're in that space and
here the the educators really really are
part of that and then there's an exit
right the experience is over but an
extension right there's sort of an
invitation back and and I think this
project in particular does a really
fantastic job of showing what that can
look like even if it's kind of the
dumbest use of VR right like we have
folks in the room that I'm doing really
super sophisticated stuff but here we
have an arts organization that
understands what their goal is
understands that the technology can help
them achieve that goal and and this is
the kind of thinking that that we're
often looking for from our grantees as
part of the work that we're doing around
this call for ideas we've also partnered
with immerse so immerses of publication
immerse news they've started to put out
a new issue of their publication focused
on arts institutions and sort of
critically thinking about the the
question that were we're asking and one
of the things that we really love is is
sort of setting up the ability for
others to to think about this right the
reason that we do sort of an open call
for ideas is not that we know the answer
to the question
we're asking if we knew the answer we
would just go fund that thing instead we
ask this big sort of broad question to
get ideas in front of us that we never
would have thought existed so one of the
things that you know we just sort of
came out of office hours and stuff the
question often that we get is what kind
of ideas are you looking for and the
answer is we don't know and we hope they
don't look exactly like the things that
we funded in the past but we do know is
we learn each time we do these kinds of
open calls for ideas the last time we
did an open call for idea we learned
that there's an incredible energy around
immersive technology and then we started
researching that and figuring out what's
happening in that space before we shape
something around presentation in these
spaces and I want to say one more thing
about immerse I do hope you'll read the
new issue but I think even more
important is they've also published a
fantastic report by Kamal Sinclair
called making a new reality and I think
her work and the work of folks like her
is really important because they're
thinking about how this new form of
storytelling can allow us to tell
stories that aren't being told and how
we can take shape of those stories and
take control of that new media early on
before everyone rushes in so I'm Krispy
happy to talk to anyone at any time my
colleague Janie is here as well you can
shoot me an email I'm pretty easy to
find and apply to the apply to the
challenge this is unlike the PDF example
it's six questions we don't ask you for
a budget at first we know that a lot of
people will apply we want to make it as
easy and effective on your time as we
can so so please do thank you
[Applause]